---
layout: post
title: "Final Reflection"
date: 2019-12-17 03:19:10 -0500
categories: reflection paperweught
author: "Nova Marques"
---

### Final reflection
The skills and talents that I found to be most valuable in this project were teamwork, communication and leadership.  The project that we were working on was a team webpage built to help teachers with their course evaluations.  Coming into this team, my biggest strength would be teamwork and communication.  Normally when in a team project, I take a step back and let others lead while making sure to get what needs to be done done and making sure my ideas and contributions are seen throughout the project.  However, as the project progressed, I began to assume a more leader style role, taking on tasks such as creating the github repository to learning how to install Laravel, MySQLi, and PHP, to teaching my teammates how to do those exact things.  I believe my background in web development was a huge contributor to the role I took in this project.  Much like anything else, this learning experience wasn’t perfect, but I have learned a tonne of valuable skills.  This project helped me grow as a leader and a teammate.  This project also helped show me my limitations with motivation.  There were a couple times during this project, especially towards the beginning, where my motivation to complete this project was dwindling.  Because of this, I am now able to better recognise when I need to take a break from whatever I am doing, or to just take things a bit slower.  Overall, this project has helped me grow as a person in multiple ways.
The changes that would be implemented by this project have yet to come, however I do believe that this project will be serve the Hendrix staff will in the future.  This project is built to replace the current course evaluation system.  Before, staff would be emailed a spreadsheet and would be asked to fill in the information in that spreadsheet, then email it in.  Our clients were struggling quite a bit with easy analysis of the data from this method.  The website we programmed aims to solve these issues by presenting the teachers taking the survey with a simple, straight forward graphical user interface where all they have to do is log in with their Hendrix email and all the surveys they need to take are there and ready for them.  On the admin side, the admins are able to view graphical representations of the data as well as export them to a comma separated values file so they can load the information into Excel.
My core belief that knowledge and education is a powerful tool has been reinforced by this project.  Simply put, a group of people working together on a project has the power to make a big impact on the local community through the knowledge they gained and implemented throughout the semester.  Other than that, none of my core beliefs have changed or been altered by this project.
My experience with this project has shown me that there are so many ways in which one can accomplish a task.  By looking at things from different angles or even through multiple angles, you are able to come up with a more holistic solution or solutions to the issue at hand.  This project has also shown me that some issues can be significantly more complex than they seem on the surface.  This information can be quite useful as some projects seem simpler than they actually are.  Know this allows me to strategically make a plan of action for any future projects.
